FFASR-leaderboard-blog-DGN (#3429)
huggingface/blog: ffasr-leaderboard.md

> ---
> title: "Introducing the FFASR Leaderboard: Benchmarking ASR in the Real World"
> thumbnail: /blog/assets/ffasr-leaderboard/thumbnail.png
> authors:
> - user: daniel-treble
> - user: whojavumusic
> - user: alessia-treble
> - user: georg-goetz
> - user: bezzam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- user: daniel-treble
  guest: true
  org: treble-technologies
- user: whojavumusic
  guest: true
  org: treble-technologies
- user: alessia-treble
  guest: true
  org: treble-technologies
- user: georg-goetz
  guest: true
  org: treble-technologies
- user: bezzam
```

---

# Introducing the FFASR Leaderboard: Benchmarking ASR in the Real World

> 🚀 **First open far-field ASR benchmark:** community-driven evaluation across 14 simulated rooms, validated against real-world measurements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🚀 **First open far-field ASR benchmark:** community-driven evaluation across 14 simulated rooms, validated against real-world measurements: https://huggingface.co/spaces/treble-technologies/ffasr
```

Reviewer: probably worth linking the leaderboard at the top 😉

---
title: "Introducing the FFASR Leaderboard: Benchmarking ASR in the Real World"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/ffasr-leaderboard/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: daniel-treble
- user: whojavumusic
- user: alessia-treble
- user: georg-goetz
- user: bezzam
---

# Introducing the FFASR Leaderboard: Benchmarking ASR in the Real World

> 🚀 **First open far-field ASR benchmark:** community-driven evaluation across 14 simulated rooms, validated against real-world measurements
>
> 📉 **The gap is real and it is large:** across all submitted models, far-field WER at low SNR is consistently several times higher than near-field WER on the same speech content
>
> 🔬 **Methodology you can trust:** hybrid wave-based simulation, sim-to-real validation, moving-source splits in beta, held-out audio, and standardized evaluation hardware across all submissions
>
> ⚡ **Accuracy and speed together:** the Pareto front plots average WER against RTFx so you can evaluate the tradeoff that is right for your deployment
>

> > 👀 **More is coming:** multi-talker scenarios, microphone array support, and echo cancellation are on the roadmap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🚀 **First open far-field ASR benchmark:** community-driven evaluation across 14 simulated rooms, validated against real-world measurements

📉 **The gap is real and it is large:** across all submitted models, far-field WER at low SNR is consistently several times higher than near-field WER on the same speech content

🔬 **Methodology you can trust:** hybrid wave-based simulation, sim-to-real validation, moving-source splits in beta, held-out audio, and standardized evaluation hardware across all submissions

⚡ **Accuracy and speed together:** the Pareto front plots average WER against RTFx so you can evaluate the tradeoff that is right for your deployment

👀 **More is coming:** multi-talker scenarios, microphone array support, and echo cancellation are on the roadmap
```

let's not use `>` as it seems to add quote when I try on https://huggingface.co/new-blog

> The gap between benchmark performance and real-world deployment is one of the more persistent frustrations in ASR development. Models that score well on standard evaluations often behave differently once real room acoustics are involved: reverberation, background noise, microphone distance, and the complex interactions between them change the problem in ways that clean-speech benchmarks do not capture. The FFASR Leaderboard is our attempt to quantify that gap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The gap between benchmark performance and real-world deployment is one of the more persistent frustrations in ASR development. Models that score well on standard evaluations often behave differently once real room acoustics are involved: reverberation, background noise, microphone distance. The complex interactions between these factors affect performance in ways that clean-speech benchmarks do not capture. The FFASR Leaderboard is our attempt to quantify that gap.
```

> Today, Treble Technologies and Hugging Face are launching the Far-Field ASR (FFASR) Leaderboard, the first open, community-driven benchmark designed to evaluate ASR models under realistic far-field acoustic conditions. It is live now, and we are inviting the community to submit models, explore the results, and help shape what comes next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, [Treble Technologies](https://huggingface.co/treble-technologies) and Hugging Face are launching the Far-Field ASR (FFASR) Leaderboard, the first open, community-driven benchmark designed to evaluate ASR models under realistic far-field acoustic conditions. It is live now, and we are inviting the community to submit models, explore the results, and help shape what comes next.
```

## Why far-field evaluation matters

Voice interfaces have expanded well beyond the headset and the smartphone. AI voice agents, conference room transcription, in-car assistants, humanoid robots, smart glasses, and hands-free tools are all seeing rapid adoption. What they have in common is that they operate in acoustically complex environments: reverberation, background noise, overlapping sounds, and a microphone that may be anywhere from one to several meters from the speaker.

> The dominant ASR evaluation paradigm has not caught up with this reality. Clean, close-microphone benchmarks remain the standard, and while they are useful for measuring core recognition quality, they do not predict far-field performance. A model that performs well on LibriSpeech or other near-field sets may degrade substantially once real room acoustics enter the picture. While there have been several research efforts around far-field and noisy speech evaluation — including [CHiME](https://www.chimechallenge.org/), [URGENT](https://v2.urgent-challenge.com/), and [NOIZEUS](https://ecs.utdallas.edu/loizou/speech/noizeus/) — the community has not had a standardized, open way to measure that degradation consistently across models in a continuously updated leaderboard format. That is the gap FFASR is built to close.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dominant ASR evaluation paradigm has not caught up with this reality. Clean, close-microphone benchmarks remain the standard, and while they are useful for measuring core recognition quality, they do not predict far-field performance. A model that performs well on LibriSpeech or other near-field sets may degrade substantially once real room acoustics enter the picture. While there have been several research efforts around far-field and noisy speech evaluation — including [CHiME](https://www.chimechallenge.org/), [URGENT](https://v2.urgent-challenge.com/), and [NOIZEUS](https://ecs.utdallas.edu/loizou/speech/noizeus/) — the community has not had a standardized, open way to measure that degradation consistently across models in a continuously updated leaderboard format. That is what FFASR is built for.
```

> Part of what makes a continuously updated benchmark practical here is simulation. Collecting far-field recordings across a representative range of room types, microphone distances, and noise conditions at scale is prohibitively expensive with physical measurements alone. Simulation makes it possible to cover that space systematically and to extend coverage over time without a corresponding increase in measurement cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A major challenge of far-field evaluation is the availability of data. Collecting far-field recordings across a representative range of room types, microphone distances, and noise conditions at scale is prohibitively expensive with physical measurements alone. Simulation makes it possible to cover that space systematically and to extend coverage over time without a corresponding increase in measurement cost.
```

> A secondary goal is to encourage the development of models that are explicitly robust to these conditions. Leaderboards have historically been effective at directing research effort. By making far-field performance visible and comparable, we hope to raise the priority of real-world acoustic robustness across the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another goal of FFASR is to encourage the development of models that are explicitly robust to these conditions. Leaderboards have historically been effective at directing research effort. By making far-field performance visible and comparable, we hope to raise the priority of real-world acoustic robustness across the field.
```

## How the benchmark is constructed

> The FFASR Leaderboard evaluates models across nine conditions. The four that determine the primary ranking score are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FFASR Leaderboard evaluates models across nine conditions. The four that determine the primary ranking score are (as of 22 June 2026):
```

> - Near-field (dry) — clean speech as a clean baseline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Near-field (dry) — clean speech measured in an anechoic chamber (similar to Librispeech but with minimal reverberation)
```

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/ffasr-leaderboard/dry.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/ffasr-leaderboard/High_SNR.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/ffasr-leaderboard/Mid_SNR.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/ffasr-leaderboard/Low_SNR.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

Two additional columns, Lab Measured and Lab Simulated, serve as a sim-to-real validation track. The leaderboard also includes moving-source splits, currently in beta, which evaluate models against audio where the speaker is in motion rather than stationary. This condition reflects use cases such as humanoid robots, in-car speech, and mobile voice assistants where the acoustic geometry between speaker and microphone changes continuously.

> The acoustic data is generated with Treble's hybrid simulation engine, which combines a wave-based solver at low to mid frequencies with geometrical-acoustics modeling at higher frequencies [REF]. This approach captures physical phenomena that simpler simulation methods often miss: diffraction, scattering, interference, and modal behavior. The result is simulated data that closely matches measured acoustic conditions, which the Lab Measured and Lab Simulated columns confirm directly by running the same evaluation on both.

Reviewer: don't forget to edit `[REF]`

One observation worth highlighting for developers: the leaderboard reports both near-field (dry) and far-field WER side by side. This separation is intentional and useful. It makes it possible to distinguish between a model that is genuinely accurate and one that is accurate but brittle to acoustic conditions, which matters for deciding whether to invest in far-field fine-tuning, speech enhancement preprocessing, or a different architecture altogether.

## How to submit

Open the Submit tab on the [FFASR Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/treble-technologies/ffasr), paste a Hugging Face model ID, and evaluation runs server-side against the held-out dataset. The pipeline supports Whisper variants, IBM Granite Speech, Cohere Transcribe, Wav2Vec2 and HuBERT CTC heads, SpeechBrain ASR, and most other ASR architectures on the Hub without any custom configuration.

> For teams using more complex inference stacks, including systems that combine speech enhancement with ASR, a custom evaluator option allows you to define your own evaluate() function. Custom evaluators run on Hub Jobs after moderator review, and the submission notes field is a good place to document any preprocessing steps so results are interpretable by others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For teams using more complex inference stacks, including systems that combine speech enhancement with ASR, a custom evaluator option allows you to define your own `evaluate()` function. Custom evaluators run on Hub Jobs after moderator review, and the submission notes field is a good place to document any preprocessing steps so results are interpretable by others.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![Custom evaluate method](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/ffasr-leaderboard/custom_evaluate.png)

```

> The held-out evaluation set uses 2,000 anechoic speech samples across 14 rooms at three SNR tiers, approximately 8 hours of audio per condition, with Whisper-style text normalization applied consistently. The audio is not exposed to submitters, which keeps the benchmark meaningful as participation grows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The held-out evaluation set uses 2,000 anechoic speech samples across 14 rooms at three SNR tiers, approximately 8 hours of audio per condition, with Whisper-style text normalization applied consistently. The audio is not exposed to submitters, to avoid test-set contamination.
```
